**Abstract-**

Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a long-term condition that occurs when the kidney loses its functionality. More than 10% of the global population (or approximately 700 million out of 8.1 billion people) are suffering from CKD. To date, nearly one million deaths are reported every year across the globe due to CKD depending upon the severity. Early diagnosis of CKD can help maintain kidney function for a longer period and extend life expectancy. The primary conventional biomarker used for diagnosis of CKD is creatinine, generally measured through blood tests. However, this method is invasive and contagious. Besides these blood tests demand more processing time with trained manpower and expensive equipment, leading to more bio-waste. The normal range of physiological creatinine concentration in blood and sweat are 0.5-1.1mg/dl and ~0.03mM respectively. In this study, we aim to explore the use of sweat, as it enables non-invasive monitoring of kidney functions, potentially leading to earlier detection of renal issues. We propose fabricating a wearable MXene-based Field Effect Transistor (FET) for trace-level creatinine sensing in human sweat samples. The device’s mechanism involves the transduction of creatinine-binding events into measurable electrical signals. With this technology, we will have a low-cost, wearable, non-invasive diagnosis tool for CKD patients throughout their stages of diagnosis, prognosis and theragnosis. Through FET technology, the sensor proposes to exhibit high sensitivity, and selectivity towards creatinine in sweat samples ensuring accurate and reliable measurement. This paves an innovative, user-friendly, and cost-effective platform for early diagnosis of CKD.

Keywords: Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), Sweat, Field-Effect Transistor ( FET), Biosensor.
